In this demonstration, you will learn how to resolve merge conflicts.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
As you can see, now we have again the perspective of the user Thomas.
Let's assume that we want to implement now the quit command so
that the user can exit the coffee shop info tool.
So first, let's adjust here the message.
Let's add a comma here and let's add here, write quit to exit application.
Now let's go down to the while loop and let me paste in an
if statement after the Console.ReadLine.
We check here if the user has entered quit and then we
use break to exit this while loop.
Let's try if this works.
So now as a user,
I can type in help to see the available coffee shop commands and
I can type in quit to exit this application.
Great, now let's commit this change.
Let's go to the Changes page and let's enter here the commit message,
Implement quit command, and let's click on Commit All.
Now let's go to the Synchronization page and let's push
this commit to the remote repository.
Oh, we got an error here in the Output window.
Let's open up Team Explorer again and let's pin it.
You can see here, Failed to push to the remote repository.
See the Output window for more details.
So we should read here,
Updates were rejected because the remote contains
work that you do not have locally.
Oh,
this means Julia has pushed commits to the master
branch of the remote repository.
You know that if you have watched the previous clip.
So now let's click here on Fetch to fetch the
commits from the remote repository.
Here you can see now the incoming commit, Adjust help message.
Let's click on Pull to merge this commit into our local branch.
Now you can see here that a merge is in progress.
You see this not only on the Synchronization page of Team Explorer,
but also on other pages.
You can click on Abort to abort this merge to continue to work locally,
but in our case, we want to push the quit command to the remote repository,
so we have to merge Julia's commit.
As you can see here, we have one conflict.
You see this conflict also on the left here in the Program.cs file.
Now you could edit the Program.cs file here manually to solve the conflict,
but instead of doing this, let's click here in Team Explorer on Conflicts.
Now you can see here in Team Explorer that the
conflict is in the Program.cs file.
When you click on this file, you have three options to solve the conflict.
You can keep the local file, you can take the remote file,
or you can merge the local and the remote file.
Let's do a diff with a local file to see what we have changed locally.
Now you can see locally, we have adjusted here the message.
Let me unpin Team Explorer.
We have adjusted here the message, write quit to exit application,
and we have implemented here this if statement to handle the quit string.
Now let's look what has changed in the remote repository.
Let's click here on Diff.
Here you can see that the string was changed and here
coffee shop was added to that string.
Oh yes, that's actually a good idea.
We should keep that change, so we should do a merge.
You can click here on Compare Files to compare the local and the remote changes.
You see here on the left side the Program.cs file from the remote repository,
then you see on the right side the Program.cs file from our local repository.
Now here you can see that we have a conflict.
Julia has added coffee shop to the string in the
Program.cs file of the remote repository.
In our local repository,
we have also adjusted exactly the same code line to add the message
for the new quit command and when I scroll down,
you can see that the if statement doesn't have a conflict.
Now let's go to Team Explorer and let's click here on the
Merge button to merge these two files.
Now the merge view opens up.
You can see up here that we have one conflict and one conflict is remaining.
So when you click here on Accept Merge,
you see that the file has one unresolved conflicting change.
So let's click Cancel.
You see here on the left side the Program.cs file from the remote repository,
then you see on the right side the Program.cs file from our local repository.
So when I scroll a bit to the right,
you can see this file on the left has coffee shop in the
string and the file on the right from our local
repository doesn't have coffee shop,
but it has our write 'quit' to exit application string.
Then when I scroll down,
you can also see that the write file includes our if statement.
Now let's scroll up again to the red part, which is the conflict.
In this merge view,
you can see a third version of the Program.cs file at the bottom.
This is the result of the merge.
So now you can select the changes you want from the
remote and from the local file,
and you will see those selected changes here in the result file.
In our case, let's select here the change from the local file,
and now you see the Console.WriteLine down here in the result file.
Now you can see up here that we have 0 remaining conflicts.
Important to know is that you can edit this result file.
So in this case,
we can just add here the string coffee shop that was
added in the remote repository by Julia.
If you have multiple conflicts in your file,
you can navigate through the conflicts with these arrow buttons.
Now as we have resolved our conflict,
let's click here on Accept Merge and let's go back to Team Explorer.
As you can see, there are no remaining conflicts.
So let's click here on Commit Merge,
which brings us back to the Changes page of Team Explorer.
You can see here the staged Program.cs file.
Let's right-click it and then select here Compare with
Unmodified to double check our changes.
You can see the string, write quit to exit application,
is part of the Console.WriteLine.
Let's scroll to the right,
and here you can also see the string coffee shop
that was part of Julia's commit.
So now let's commit the merge.
Let's enter here the commit message, Merge Julia's help message,
and let's click on Commit Staged.
Now let's go to the Synchronization page of Team Explorer.
You'll see, now we have 2 Outgoing Commits,
Implement quit command and Merge Julia's help message.
Let's push now these two commits to the remote repository.
Let's click here on master to navigate to the Branches page.
Let's right-click on the master branch and then select here View History.
In this history view,
let's click here this little button to switch to the detailed view.
Now you can actually see the graph.
Here you can see the merge of the two commits.
Here is the commit from user Thomas where we implemented the quit command,
and here is the commit from user Julia where she adjusted the help message.
And here at the top,
you can see the merge commit where we merged Julia's help message.
Alright, so far so good. Now let's wrap up what we have learned in this module.